http://chocolateandzucchini.com/archives/2004/02/fig_and_pear_salad_with_bresaola.php
Fig and Pear Salad with Bresaola | Chocolate & Zucchini Amazon.com Widgets
about recipes books store forums contact
  Subscribe by Email
  Subscribe by RSS
  Twitter Updates
  Facebook Page
Search C&Z
About C&Z
About
Press & Awards
Articles by Clotilde
French Version
Moblog
Tools
Food Glossary
Conversions
Paris Food Markets
Features
Recipe Index
Index by Ingredient
Picture Gallery
Links
can't get it out of my head
  CookieMachine by Pacovolume
now reading
Four Kitchens , a memoir by Lauren Shockey
previous songs & reads »
Archives by category
Appetizers
Basics
Bookwriting
Bread & Brioche
Breakfast
Cakes & Desserts
Candy
Cheese & Dairy
Chocolate
Cookbooks
Cookies & Small Cakes
Cooking Classes
Desktop Calendar
Dips & Spreads
Drinks
Eggs
Events
Fish & Shellfish
French Idioms
Green Kitchen
Ice Cream & Sorbets
Ingredients
Interlude
Jams & Nut Butters
Links
Meat & Charcuterie
Paris City Guide
Pasta
Restaurants
Salads
Sandwiches
Sauces & Dressings
Shopping
Soups
Starters
Thoughts
Tools & Utensils
Travels
Vegetables & Grains
Archives by date
Jan 2011    Dec 2010    Nov 2010    Oct 2010    Sep 2010    Aug 2010    Jul 2010    Jun 2010    May 2010    Apr 2010    Mar 2010    Feb 2010    Jan 2010    Dec 2009    Nov 2009    Oct 2009    Sep 2009    Aug 2009    Jul 2009    Jun 2009    May 2009    Apr 2009    Mar 2009    Feb 2009    Jan 2009    Dec 2008    Nov 2008    Oct 2008    Sep 2008    Aug 2008    Jul 2008    Jun 2008    May 2008    Apr 2008    Mar 2008    Feb 2008    Jan 2008    Dec 2007    Nov 2007    Oct 2007    Sep 2007    Aug 2007    Jul 2007    Jun 2007    May 2007    Apr 2007    Mar 2007    Feb 2007    Jan 2007    Dec 2006    Nov 2006    Oct 2006    Sep 2006    Aug 2006    Jul 2006    Jun 2006    May 2006    Apr 2006    Mar 2006    Feb 2006    Jan 2006    Dec 2005    Nov 2005    Oct 2005    Sep 2005    Aug 2005    Jul 2005    Jun 2005    May 2005    Apr 2005    Mar 2005    Feb 2005    Jan 2005    Dec 2004    Nov 2004    Oct 2004    Sep 2004    Aug 2004    Jul 2004    Jun 2004    May 2004    Apr 2004    Mar 2004    Feb 2004    Jan 2004    Dec 2003    Nov 2003    Oct 2003    Sep 2003   
  Version française
C&Z PARIS BOOK
read more about the book »
C&Z Gear
Newsletter
Sign up to be updated once a month with news, announcements, and a digest of recent entries!
twittering
more tweets »
happy user of
« Fresh Goat Cheese Truffles   Which Came First Donburi »
February  5, 2004 Salade Figue et Poire à la Bresaola
[Fig and Pear Salad with Bresaola]
While planning the menu for our Saturday night dinner party, I realized I hardly ever serve salad as a first course . I'll often use salad to accompany the star item, like a tartlet or a bruschetta or a mousse or a slice of terrine or what-have-you, but it is rarely a salad in its own right. I'm sorry.
I guess this is because salads don't sound like they'll be much fun to prepare : they're pretty easy, it's just a lot of ingredient preparation before the final tossing-together. But this time, I reflected that they can be nicely colorful and light , a fresh and satisfying opener served with good bread. And the added value is really in the pairing ideas , so I decided to explore that route, and composed this fig and pear salad with bresaola.
The idea came from a sandwich I recently ate at Cojean , a trendy healthy fast-food place that serves deliciously fresh products. It's one of my absolute faves for a quick lunch, and I have written a review for Bonjour Paris (Note : it is in the premium content area of the site, for which you need a subscription, but I encourage you to consider getting one : it will open the door to a wealth of interesting and witty articles -- and there is a money-back guarantee if you don't like it).
Last time I had lunch there, in addition to my delicious spelt and green bean salad with hazelnuts , I enjoyed a mini-sandwich of fresh fig, pear, bresaola, and Fourme d'Ambert, on a loaf of whole-wheat walnut bread. Bresaola is an Italian specialty of dried beef, lean and moist, cut in paper-thin slices ; Fourme d'Ambert is a blue cheese from Auvergne. It was excellent, and the idea stuck in my mind, to be transformed into this salad. I substituted mozzarella for the Fourme d'Ambert though, because I thought blue cheese was a little too sharp for the ensemble.
This salad turned out pretty and tasty, and I loved the way the different elements came together : sweetness from the fig and pear, saltiness from the bresaola strips, mellow and tender mozzarella, crunchy slightly bitter walnuts, and tangily dressed greens.
We served it with fresh baguette, or more precisely the beautiful fresh heart-shaped baguettes the Boulangépicier makes for Valentine's Day this year!
Salade Figue et Poire à la Bresaola
- 1 ripe and juicy pear
- 3 ripe figs
- 150 g mozzarella di bufala (incomparably tastier - but pricier - than the cow's milk one)
- 4 slices of bresaola
- 2 Tbsp chopped nuts
- 4 large handfuls (about 100 g) mixed spring greens
For the dressing :
- 1Tbsp walnut oil
- 1Tbsp olive oil
- 1Tbsp balsamic vinegar
- herbes de Provence
- salt, pepper
(Serves 4.)
Prepare the dressing by whisking together all the dressing ingredients in a small bowl. Set aside.
Wash and dry the greens . Cut the figs in quarters. Slice the mozarella , and cut some of the slices to get twelve roughly equal pieces. Cut the bresaola slices in rectangular strips. You can prepare these elements ahead, and store them for a few hours, covered, in the refrigerator.
Cut the pear in quarters, core and peel them. Slice each quarter in four slices. (This has to be done at the last minute to prevent the pear flesh from getting brown. You could cut the pear ahead too and splash the slices with lemon juice, but I didn't want lemon juice in this salad.)
Plating . Set out the four serving plates on the counter. On each plate, deposit a handful of greens. Set three pieces of mozzarella on top. Arrange a fourth of the bresaola strips and pear slices on top, in a star formation. Balance three fig quarters on top, and sprinkle with a few chopped nuts.
Use a small spoon to drizzle dressing all around the plate and on the salad.
Serve with fresh baguette or walnut bread.
Cojean
4 rue de Sèze
75009 Paris
M° Madeleine
01 40 06 08 80
boulangépicier
73 bd de Courcelles
75008 Paris
M° Courcelles
01 46 22 20 20
boulangepicier.com
Tweet
 
Red Cabbage and Dried Figs Salad
Fresh Fig and Rose Smoothie
Fig + Chocolate Never miss a recipe!
Sign up for the Chocolate & Zucchini newsletter to receive monthly news.
 
  Print me!  |    Comments ( 9 )
Permalink  | Posted by clotilde in Recipe Inside! - Salads
 Comments (9)
Wondering about the profile images that appear for some commenters? Get your own gravatar today!
todrownarose | February  5, 2004  5:09 PM | Reply I know, I know, I'm a fusspot... but we spell it "bresaola". I do like salads mixed with fruit, so I'll try this (maybe with a few slivers of local cheese instead of mozzarella). I might also try to spread the recipe through the nearby Valtellina, blessed homeland of the aformentioned cold meat (good and lowfat like few others).
clotilde | February  5, 2004  5:21 PM | Reply Todrownarose - Oh no, not a fusspot at all (though I love the expression), on the contrary thanks for pointing this out! I have made the correction immediately... :) I'm guessing the French have a tendency to spell it with two "s" (if at all) because in French, an "s" between two vowels is pronounced "z".
 
Patrick | February  5, 2004  7:33 PM | Reply I couldn't help noticing this :
"because in French, an "s" between two vowels is pronounced "z"."
Mmmff... There ARE exceptions, as you very well know ! ;°)
And while I'm posting here, congratulations for your appearance as "Feedster's Feed of The Day" !A thousand times deserved...
And you know, thttp://ijustlovemyapron.blogspot.com/2010/11/roasted-pork-with-blackberry-balsamic.html
I Just Love My Apron: Roasted Pork with Blackberry Balsamic Reduction, and Potato & Beet
I Just Love My Apron ..When someone lives to eat, not eat to live..
Home Twittter My Store Meet Tanantha Featured On
Roasted Pork with Blackberry Balsamic Reduction, and Potato & Beet Filed under: Pork , Sauce by: Tanantha P.
11.16.10
I'm officially 30.
Gosh. I'm old.
(I know some of you would yell at me to shut up - 30 isn't old!)
There are many things come to my life. Come and go. Good and bad. New and old. I don't take things for granted but feel fortunate to meet great people.
When I was young, 30 is old. I now am 30, and I don't feel any difference from being on late twenties yet. My friends said you will at some point.  Kids come to a marriage life equation. I know it's joy and blessing to have kids. However, I don't know if I want them yet. I just feel I should. New ideas of doing and trying things still keep popping in my head. I have to tell myself to stop and think; do it one at a time.
This past few weeks have been very busy for me. We have a new employee at work that I need to train. My boss was in town, technical Problem at my blog. All committed occasions that we have to attend, birthdays (there are so many Scorpios!), traveling, and the new gig. They keep me very busy. I feel like I need a break. A glass of wine before bedtime completes my day. Since the Europe trip, I've realized a glass of wine a day isn't bad and it helps me sleep well! It may help me build up an alcohol tolerance and I won't be a "Red Lobster" at a social function again. With all that said, the lucky part is that I don't have gray hairs yet! Yippee. Hahaha.
I apologize for not being around a blogosphere much. It has been hectic for me recently and I've been so bad at getting back to people.
So, this dish I made a little while back. I didn't write a measurement down so I didn't remember how much I put but it's pretty easy that you don't need a recipe for this. You get the idea of the dish and you will get it. I'm sorry if this post sounds lousy but I don't want to give you wrong measurements!
Before anything else, I'd like to shout out some news.
First , the new piece on the IE has been up for sometime. This piece got an input from two familiar bloggers - Roxan @ Kitchen Meditation , and Lazaro @ Lazaro Cooks . Please check it out here .
Second , Nancy @ Spicie Foodie just launched her cookbook. Please check it out here .
Roasted Pork Ball with Blackberry Balsamic Reduction, and Potato & Beet
Yield: 4
Ingredients:
2 pork balls. I got these balls from a farmer's market.
Salt and pepper
Smoked paprika
Cayenne pepper
Balsamic Vinegar about 1/2  cup
Black Berries about 1/2 cup
Sugar about 2 tbs
Red and Yokon potatoes, cubed into small bites
Beet, peeled and cubed into small bites
Chopped sage about 1 tbs
4 tbs Butter, divided
Olive oil
Directions:
Season pork with salt, pepper, smoked paprika, and cayenne pepper on both sides. Preheat the oven to 400 F. Heat up a skillet on medium high heat. Add butter and olive oil. Wait until butter is bubbling, sear pork on both sides. Pour hot butter-oil from the pan over the pork. Pop the skillet in the oven and bake for about 40-45 mins or to your desire of doneness, or the thermometer reaches 165. In a meantime, heat up another skillet and add 2 tbs butter and olive oil. Add potatoes and beets in a skillet. Season with salt, pepper, smoked paprika, cayenne pepper, and sage. Cover with a lid and let the stove works the magic. Stir occasionally. It will take about half hour. Bring a small sauce pan on a stove. Add balsamic vinegar, berries, and sugar. Bring to boil, then reduce heat to simmer. Simmer it until it's reduced by half. With leftover beet, cut into match sticks. Pan fried them. Set aside. Brush the balsamic on pork both sides. Slice the pork and drizzle the balsamic over. Plating:
Place sliced pork and drizzle with berry balsamic. Add potato/beet on the side. Top with fried beet.
 
21
comments: On November 16, 2010 5:47 PM , Pacheco Patty said... Hi Tanantha, Thanks for your sweet comment on my blog, you are always a bright spot in my day:)  I think you've put together an amazing savory dish here with some of my favorite flavors.  I like pork roast with fruit and the blackberry reduction is a wonderful idea.  Congrats on your big birthday, I can't even remember 30, LOL, maybe 40 but that too is a stretch!
  On November 16, 2010 10:13 PM , lequan said... Hi Tanantha,
Happy belated birthday, my friend! Regarding your comment on my blog, no, my son's birthday wasn't this weekend. We just had to wait until the weekend for my in-laws to fly in to celebrate with him. I hope you had a wonderful birthday this past weekend.
You know what? Not that I'm any kid expert, but having been there, done that, definitely enjoy all your traveling before you have kids. If you're not ready then just wait till you're ready. The only thing I regret is that hubby and I never travelled as much as we could have before we had kids. Plus, just enjoy your alone times with your hubby, cause once kids come, alone time is rare.
Anyways, I'm not a pork eater but I do love the presentation of your dish. The way you cooked it sounds marvelous as well. Aside from the fact that it's pork meat, I'm in love with your dish. Such wonderful combination of flavors. If that was beef, I'm sure I'd gobble it down faster than you could say pork ;-). Lovely recipe, Tanantha. I hope things will calm down soon so you can have some much deserved rest. Wine always helps me wind down, even if I do look like a lobster :-D.
  On November 16, 2010 10:28 PM , denise @ quickies on the dinner table said... "So many Scorpios"??! ROFL I think you're right, cos I'm one too :D
Hope you had a wonderful birthday
Tanantha and really, age is just a number unless you let it be anything else!
Love your roast pork with its rich and earthy flavours. Beautiful presentation too!!
  On November 17, 2010 6:37 AM , Anncoo said... Hi Tanantha, Happy belated birthday to you.
I just made roast pork two days ago and I'm going to add the ingredients in this post, looks so delicious.
  On November 17, 2010 7:45 AM , Roxan said... Oh so true, a glass of wine is a great end to the day! Plus, one glass of wine is supposedly good for you, because it has antioxidants and what not. Yup, what I keep telling myself!
I didn't know your birthday passed! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Welcome to your thirties :) I think you're only a couple months younger than me.
And most definitely - stop and do one thing at a time :) It's hard for me to do that too... i end up getting overwhelmed a lot.  I need to make that my mantra!
  On November 17, 2010 9:06 AM , Lazaro Cooks! said... T,
Happy Happy entrance into the thirties, I've been here a bit, welcome.  You have many wonderful things headed your way.  You are a sweet, intelligent, passionate person that is really going places.
My kind of pork dish.  Love the blackberry reduction. Kudos on a tasty plate.
  On November 17, 2010 10:08 AM , Magic of Spice said... 30 old? That is too funny ;)
Beautifully prepared dish...and a glass of wine in the evening is most definitely a good thing :)
  On November 17, 2010 2:17 PM , Stella said... Happy Birthday, Tanantha! I loved my 30th year (smile). I was young & beautiful and I felt it, so I hope you do too. It really is a wonderful time in life-you'll see when you have a bit more life to compare it to... Even two to three years down the road is very different;-)
Anyway, this pork with blackberry reduction looks amazing. If I wasn't a veggie eater now, I would go crazy on it (smile).
  On November 17, 2010 3:24 PM , Monet said... Hi sweet woman...I've been missing you so I was happy to see this post. Happy Birthday! You are going to have an amazing 30th year, I'm sure! And this pork looks spectacular. Blueberry balsamic reduction? Wow! Thank you for sharing. I hope you have a wonderful Wednesday night!
  On November 17, 2010 5:33 PM , Chef Dennis said... Tanantha
I have clothing older than 30...sigh....I love that pork it looks so flavorful, and the blackberry balsamic reduction is such a wonderful sauce for that lovely pork!!
Happy belated birthday!
Dennis
  On November 18, 2010 1:47 AM , Angie's Recipes said... Tanantha, Happy Birthday!!!
The roasted pork looks so very tempting! I like the side too.
  On November 18, 2010 10:28 AM , Juliana said... Wow Tanantha, this roasted pork just made my mouth water...it sure looks so tasty, moist and full of flavor...love how you presented.
Happy Belated Birthday :-)
  On November 18, 2010 6:59 PM , 5 Star Foodie said... Happy belated birthday!    Hope you had a great celebration!   The pork looks excellent, the blackberry balsamic reduction is so perfect to go with it and I like the addition of beets too.
  On November 18, 2010 8:05 PM , Marisa said... Happy birthday! I'm a scorpio too! This dish is beautiful--really well composed. The blackberry balsamic sounds awesome. I would lick my plate clean!
  On November 19, 2010 12:52 PM , Jessie said... I can imagine that turning 30 is a big mental transition.  I've always had the benefit of an older sister who sort of "paved the way" for me as I was growing up, but now ... I think at 26, I'm paving the way for myself now :)
I completely understand you not being around as much - I mean, my goodness, look at your to-do list!  Just take the time you need to get stuff done, and enjoy your nightly class of wine :D
Hugs to a fellow Scorpio!
  On November 19, 2010 3:02 PM , Spicie Foodie said... Hi 30 year lady :) Wow it sounds like you need another vacation to get away from all of that work. Tanantha don't let anyone push you into the baby thing. It's up to you and when you feel ready. (I constantly get nagged about it by my Mom) Your recipe sounds amazing, sweet,spicy and a little tart just perfect! It doesn't mater if there aren't exact measurements we can all see how great you made it. Your food always looks like a 5 star restaurant! I read your newest article a while ago and loved it. Sounds like my holidays.
Get ready cause I'm going to give you a big bear hug, squeeeezzzzeee! That's for being so supportive and for your b-day:) Have a great weekend.
  On November 19, 2010 6:26 PM , Biren @ Roti n Rice said... Life gets busy at 30 and then it flies off the cliff around 40 when your kids keep you even more busy..haha! I hope you had a wonderful birthday.
The roasted pork, balsamic glaze, potatoes, and beets sound delicious. It all looks very juicy and flavorful.
  On November 21, 2010 6:57 PM , baking.serendipity said... My husband and I loooove blackberries...I bet they are a fantastic addition to the pork! Thanks for sharing and happy belated birthday :)
  On November 21, 2010 7:34 PM , ~Lisa~ said... This dish is my kind of meal when you're craving a meat and potato dish. Love the flavors. And um, you can;t get rid of the asian glow, no matter your tolerance hehehe and glass a wine a day is actually beneficial for you (=
  On November 21, 2010 7:35 PM , ~Lisa~ said... OH and happy belated bday. 30 is the new 20's no one told hou? lol
  On December 28, 2010 9:20 AM , Magdalena said... Happy Birthday!
You know now, when I am  36 I think, that I am still young and I feel better when I turned into 30.
I like this recipe a lot, especially that you decided to use beets - the vegetable, which is frequently used in Polish cooking, but which is, in general, not popular in the West.
I love your creation.
 
Post a Comment
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Subscribe via email Enter your email address:
Delivered by FeedBurner
Subscribe To Posts Atom
Posts
Comments Atom
Comments
FoodBuzz
Recommending Amazon.com Widgets
Search This Blog Loading...
Categories Appetizers (9) Asian (10) Avocado (1) Awards (2) Beef (2) Beverages (3) Bread (2) Breakfast (1) cassarole (2) Cheese (1) Chinese (1) Chocolate (4) Cookies (5) cranberry (3) Cupcakes (2) Dessert (15) eggplant (1) Eggs (3) Featured (17) Fish (10) Food Reviews (4) Green Tea (3) Guest Post (3) Korean (3) Light Dinner (12) Meat less (3) Mexican (4) Noodles (6) Nuts (2) Onions (1) pasta he next Presidential Election in France is in 2007. Keep going with your blog as you're doing now, and I think you stand a reasonable chance (but you might have to switch to French at some stage, I'm afraid...)
Jackie | February  5, 2004  8:29 PM | Reply Clotilde, Clotilde, what am I going to do with you? You render me unoriginal once again: All I can say is, yum!
I think this would also be lovely with Parma ham instead of the bresaola (or it looks that way when J*m** *l*v*r makes his stupidly named "sexiest salad ever" or whatever he calls it).
Eric | February  6, 2004 12:26 AM | Reply Ah, a salad, now that's more my speed!  The figs / cheese /pear combo looks interesting, I'll have to try that... with some sort of baguette, of course... I got addicted to those on my last trip to Paris.
clotilde | February  6, 2004  1:35 PM | Reply Papa - I did consider mentioning the notable exceptions to that rule, but thought it better to keep it simple! :) Thanks for the Feed of the Day congrats and for your strong belief in my political carrer! ;)
Jackie - Yes, Parma ham would be a perfect sub! It's also more widely available I think...
Eric - I'm glad this appeals to you, let me know what you think if you try it!
 
fred | March  3, 2004  7:09 PM | Reply Bonjour Clotilde et bravo pour votre site!
Merci également pour vos gentils mots sur Cojean.
J'ai beaucoup aimé l'idée de votre salade d'après le petit sandwich que l'on a fait au restaurant.
Sachez que l'on a ouvert depuis 2 semaines au 17,bvd Haussmann et que l'on se fera un plaisir de vous y rencontrer.
A très bientôt!
Fred maquair
Associé d'Alain Cojean et responsable produits.
clotilde | March  5, 2004  9:54 AM | Reply Fred - Merci à vous pour votre visite! L'ouverture d'un nouveau Cojean est une excellente nouvelle, je ne manquerai pas d'y faire un tour à la première occasion, et j'en profiterai pour vous saluer si vous êtes là, alors!
 
Tim Broxton | February 14, 2010  6:55 AM | Reply This is a very thoughtful salad, the use of the buffalo mozzarella is uncanny.  I personally have prepared a very similar salad using, Dutch Parrano cheese - consisting of a nutty flavor - like mixing gouda and parmesan.  The result was spectacular.  My dressing was similar except it did not contain walnut oil - nice touch! Lovely
 Post a comment
Name
Email Address
URL
Remember personal info?
Comment
                    (You may use HTML tags for style)
As an anti-spam measure, please type the word 'olive' (without quotes) below (required) :
All writing and photography on Chocolate & Zucchini is Copyright Clotilde Dusoulier © 2003-2011 unless indicated otherwise. All rights reserved.
http://www.williams-sonoma.com/recipe/almond-scented-white-cake.html
Almond-Scented White Cake | Williams-Sonoma Javascript Not Enabled Please enable Javascript in your browser to experience all
the custom features of our site, including the ability to make a purchase.
Account Sign In Registry Sign In View Basket Checkout Search by keyword, recipe or item # Search Search Suggestions
Skip Navigation Find a Registry Create your Registry Manage your Registry Recipe Search Good Food to Share What's For Dinner? Voltaggio Brothers Spice Recipes Art of the Cocktail Tips and Techniques Technique Classes Entertaining Ideas wsKids Recipes Catalog Recipes This Season Our Best Sellers Top-Rated Gifts Food Gifts Monogrammed & Personalized Gifts Great Gifts Under $50 Great Gifts Under $100 Great Gifts Under $250 Gifts by Recipient The Cook The Entertainer The Wine Lover Wedding & Shower Gifts Business Gifts Gift Cards Shop by Category New Cookware Top-Rated Cookware Cookware Sets Dutch Ovens & Braisers Fry & Sauté Pans Grill Pans & Griddles Roasters Saucepans & Sauciers Specialty Cookware Stock, Soup & Multipots Teakettles Cast-Iron Cookware Nonstick Cookware International Cookware Pot Racks Shop by Brand All-Clad Cookware Calphalon Cookware Demeyere Cookware Le Creuset Cookware Mauviel Cookware Ruffoni Cookware Staub Cookware Shop by Category New Cooks' Tools Top-Rated Cooks' Tools Baking & Pastry Tools Colanders & Strainers Cookbooks Cooking Utensils Cutting Boards Fruit & Vegetable Tools Graters & Peelers Grill Tools & Accessories Mandolines & Slicers Meat & Seafood Tools Mixing Bowls & Measuring Cups Salt & Pepper Mills Specialized Kitchen Tools Timers & Thermometers Shop by Category New Cutlery Top-Rated Cutlery Knife Sets Bread Knives Chef's & Santoku Knives Cleavers & Boning Knives Paring Knives Slicing & Carving Knives Specialty Knives Steak Knives Utility Knives Kitchen Shears Cutting Boards Knife Sharpeners & Storage Shop by Brand Global Knives Michel Bras Knives Shun Knives Wüsthof Knives Zwilling J.A. Henckels Knives Shop by Category New Electrics Top-Rated Electrics Blenders & Juicers Coffee Makers & Teakettles Cooking for Baby Espresso Makers Food Processors Mixers & Attachments Panini Presses & Grills Pressure, Rice & Slow Cookers Specialty Electrics Toasters & Ovens Waffle Makers Stoves Shop by Brand All-Clad Electrics Beaba Baby Breville Electrics Cuisinart Electrics KitchenAid Electrics Nespresso Electrics Shop by Category New Bakeware Top-Rated Bakeware Baking Dishes Baking & Pastry Tools Bread & Loaf Pans Cake Pans Cookie Cutters & Pancake Molds Cupcake & Muffin Pans Gift Packaging Mixing Bowls & Measuring Cups Pie Dishes & Tart Pans Sheet Pans & Cookie Sheets Shop by Brand Emile Henry Bakeware Le Creuset Bakeware USA Pan Bakeware Shop by Category New Food Top-Rated Food Appetizers & Hors d'Oeuvres Baking Mixes & Ingredients Beverages Cakes & Cookies Candy & Chocolate Cooking Sauces Croissants & Pastries Food for the Grill Meat & Seafood Oils, Vinegars & Condiments Spices & Seasonings Shop Wine Williams-Sonoma Wine Club Shop by Category Top-Rated Glassware & Barware Bar Glasses Decanters & Pitchers Everyday Glassware Monogrammed Glassware & Barware Outdoor Glassware Stemware Wine & Bar Tools Wine Storage Shop by Brand Riedel Glassware William Yeoward Glassware Schott Zwiesel Glassware Shop by Category New Tabletop Top-Rated Tabletop Dinnerware Flatware Outdoor Dining Serveware Table Accessories Table Linens Tabletop Collections Williams-Sonoma Pantry The Monogram Shop Shop by Brand Apilco Tableware Shop by Seasonal Look Bridal Shower Brunch Classic Bride Essentials Modern Bride Essentials Williams-Sonoma Pantry Breakfast Shop by Category New Décor & Furnishings Chairs & Stools Decorative Accessories Doormats Floor Coverings Kitchen Islands & Carts Wreaths & Trees The Monogram Shop Shop by Category New Homekeeping Top-Rated Homekeeping Aprons & Oven Mitts Cleaning Tools & Supplies Dish Cloths & Towels Food Storage Gift Packaging Irons & Laundry Care Kitchen Organization Ladders & Step Stools Shelving & Pot Racks Soaps & Lotions Trash & Recycling Vacuums The Monogram Shop Shop by Category Outdoor Grills Grill Tools & Cookware Food for the Grill Outdoor Dining & Entertaining Learn More Guide to Grilling
Main Content Starts Here Recipes Recipe Ideas Good Food to Share What's For Dinner? Voltaggio Brothers Spice Recipes Art of the Cocktail Tips & Techniques Technique Classes Entertaining Ideas wsKids Recipes Catalog Recipes Recipe Box Recipe Search Recipes By Course Appetizers Beverages Breads Breakfast Desserts Main Courses Salads Side Dishes Soups
Return to Previous Page
Printer Friendly Version
Almond-Scented White Cake
Related Items Williams-Sonoma Goldtouch® Nonstick Round Cake Pans Sugg. Price:
$22.00 – $48.00 Our Price:
$22.00 – $42.00
(8)
KitchenAid Professional 620 Stand Mixer, Brushed Nickel Sugg. Price:
$1,000.00 Our Price:
$899.95
(13)
Silicone Spatulas & Spoonula, Red Sugg. Price:
$7.00 – $28.00 Our Price:
$7.00 – $28.00
(79)
All-Clad Stainless-Steel Odd-Size Cups & Spoons Set $40.00
(225)
World Vanillas, Madagascar, Tahitian, Mexican, Set of 3 $32.00
(3)
Glass Cake Stand $65.00
(1)
Shun Classic 6" Serrated Utility Knife Sugg. Price:
$107.00 Our Price:
$99.95
(7)
Ateco Cake Stand, 12" $85.00
(5)
Offset Stainless-Steel Icing Spatula $32.00
(3)
Reviews for Almond-Scented White Cake
4.8 out of 5
14 total review(s)
Ingredients: 2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour 1 Tbs. baking powder 1/2 tsp. salt 12 Tbs. (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature 1 1/2 cups sugar 2 tsp. vanilla extract 1 tsp. almond extract 1 cup milk 5 egg whites, at room temperature 3/4 cup raspberry preserves, melted Raspberries (optional) 1 1/4 cups sliced almonds, lightly toasted and cooled For the cream cheese frosting: 1 lb. cream cheese, at room temperature 6 Tbs. (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature 1 1/4 cups confectioners’ sugar 1 1/2 tsp. vanilla extract 1 1/2 tsp. almond extract Directions: Position a rack in the middle of an oven and preheat to 350ºF. Butter and flour 2 round cake pans each 9 inches in diameter and 1 1/2 inches deep.
In a medium bowl, sift together the flour, baking powder and salt. In a large bowl, using an electric mixer set on medium-high speed, beat the butter until light. Gradually add the sugar, beating until well blended. Beat in the vanilla and almond extracts. Reduce the speed to low and, dividing the flour mixture into 3 batches, beat the flour mixture into the butter mixture alternately with the milk just until combined.
In a large bowl, using an electric mixer fitted with clean, dry beaters and set on high speed, beat the egg whites until stiff peaks form. Using a rubber spatula, gently fold the beaten whites into the batter just until incorporated. Divide the batter between the prepared pans; smooth with the spatula.
Bake until a toothpick inserted into the centers comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Transfer to racks and let cool in the pans for 10 minutes. Run a sharp knife around the pan sides to loosen the cakes. Invert onto racks and let cool completely.
Meanwhile, make the cream cheese frosting: In a large bowl, combine the cream cheese and butter. Using an electric mixer set on medium-high speed, beat until smooth. Reduce the speed to low, add the confectioners' sugar and again beat until smooth. Beat in the vanilla and almond extracts until well blended.
Using a long serrated knife, cut each cake in half horizontally. Place 1 layer on a plate. Spread 1/2 cup of the frosting over the top, then drizzle on 1/4 cup of the melted preserves. Top with another cake layer and repeat with the same amounts of frosting and preserves. Top with a third cake layer and again repeat with the same amounts of frosting and preserves. Top with the fourth cake layer, cut side down.
Spread the remaining frosting over the top and sides. Ring the top with raspberries, if using, and press the toasted almonds onto the sides.
Serve immediately, or cover with a cake dome and refrigerate for up to 1 day. Bring to room temperature before serving.
Makes one 9-inch cake; serves 10 to 12.
Adapted from
Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Series,
Cakes, Cupcakes & Cheesecakes,
by Sarah Tenaglia
(Time-Life Books, 1995).
Return to Previous Page
Back to Top
Read All Reviews
Need Assistance? Contact Us Store Locator Store Events Track Your Order Shipping Information Return Policy Catalog Request Find Recipes Shop Catalog Quick Shop Gift Cards Gifts Cookware Cooks' Tools Cutlery Electrics Bakeware Food   Glassware & Bar Tabletop Décor & Furnishings Homekeeping Outdoor New Special Values Sale Wine Club Our Company About Us Chuck Williams Williams-Sonoma Inc. Careers Site Map Terms & Conditions/Privacy Business Sales Cooks' Network Wedding & Gift Registry Stay Connected Give feedback about our site.
From Our Family of Brands Williams-Sonoma : cookware cast iron cookware all clad kitchen utensils wedding registry Williams-Sonoma Home : luxury bedding hotel bedding throw blanket linen sheets cashmere blankets Pottery Barn : duvet covers bath towels sectionals bed skirts media stands Pottery Barn Kids : baby furniture kids bedding bassinets changing tables baby registry PBteen : teen bedding wall decals bean bag chairs desk chairs boys bedding West Elm : modern furniture contemporary furniture wall shelves modern bedding room decor
For questions or assistance, call 24 hours a day! 877.812.6235
© 2011 Williams-Sonoma Inc. All Rights Reserved
(6) Pie (2) Pork (6) Poultry (15) Preserved food (1) rice (4) Salad (5) Sandwiches (4) Sauce (10) seafood (6) Semi-homemade (1) Slow Cooker (1) Soup (6) Thai (14) Thought for food (14) Tofu (3) Travel (3) Vegetarian (1)
Blog Archive Blog Archive February (1) January (4) December (4) November (3) October (3) September (8) August (8) July (7) June (9) May (10) April (9) March (9) February (5) January (5) December (2) November (5) October (1)
Featured Author
I Just Love My Apron
view my recipes
Join us on Facebook
Visitors Provided by website-hit-counters.com site.
© Design by Ophelia Nicholson .Converted to Blogger by Blogger Templates
